---
title: "Room Temperature Charge-Transfer Phosphorescence from Organic Donor–Acceptor Co-crystals"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2022-charge-transfer-phosphorescence-cocrystals
excerpt: 'This study investigates room temperature charge-transfer phosphorescence in organic donor–acceptor co-crystals.'
date: 2022-09-01
venue: 'Chemical Sciences'
citation: 'Swadhin Garain, Shafugi Naz Ansari, Anju Ajayan Kongasseri, Bidhan Chandra Garain, Swapan K. Pati, Subi J. George. (2022). &quot;Room Temperature Charge-Transfer Phosphorescence from Organic Donor–Acceptor Co-crystals.&quot; <i>Chemical Sciences</i>, 13(34), 10011-10019.'
---
Engineering the electronic excited state manifolds of organic molecules can give rise to various functional outcomes, including ambient triplet harvesting, that has received prodigious attention in the recent past. Herein, we introduce a modular, non-covalent approach to bias the entire excited state landscape of an organic molecule using tunable ‘through-space charge-transfer’ interactions with appropriate donors. Although charge-transfer (CT) donor–acceptor complexes have been extensively explored as functional and supramolecular motifs in the realm of soft organic materials, they could not imprint their potentiality in the field of luminescent materials, and it still remains as a challenge. Thus, in the present study, we investigate the modulation of the excited state emission characteristics of a simple pyromellitic diimide derivative on complexation with appropriate donor molecules of varying electronic characteristics to demonstrate the selective harvesting of emission from its locally excited (LE) and CT singlet and triplet states. Remarkably, co-crystallization of the pyromellitic diimide with heavy-atom substituted and electron-rich aromatic donors leads to an unprecedented ambient CT phosphorescence with impressive efficiency and notable lifetime. Further, gradual minimizing of the electron-donating strength of the donors from 1,4-diiodo-2,3,5,6-tetramethylbenzene (or 1,2-diiodo-3,4,5,6-tetramethylbenzene) to 1,2-diiodo-4,5-dimethylbenzene and 1-bromo-4-iodobenzene modulates the source of ambient phosphorescence emission from the $$^{3}CT$$ excited state to $$^{3}LE$$ excited state. Through comprehensive spectroscopic, theoretical studies, and single-crystal analyses, we elucidate the unparalleled role of intermolecular donor–acceptor interactions to toggle between the emissive excited states and stabilize the triplet excitons. We envisage that the present study will be able to provide new and innovative dimensions to the existing molecular designs employed for triplet harvesting.
